# OrderForecast
Portfolio Project at Data Science Retreat (Berlin) 

Business objective: Forecasting next month order quantity for a wholesale fashion company. 
Creating forecasts is a common activity in the corporate world. It’s an integral part of the performance management process. So why does it matter to apply data science to forecasting? Most companies are struggling to make predictions that are within five percent of their actual results. Using data science to predict forecasts ensures that the results are unbiased and free from a personal agenda and office politics. In 2007 KPMG released a survey “Forecasing with confidence” with the key result being, that companies who apply a scientific approach over an artistic one, are more capable to use these estimates for strategic decision making.
How to get the data? I got the permission to extract data from the Data Warehouse of my former client, a wholesales fashion company. To create a forecast for next month, the history of all stores placing orders for different product groups is needed. I used SQL to access the database and store the data in files. With Python the data got extracted from the file and transformed to fit a regression model. Additional features like google trend analysis, stock market changes and other economic factors were added as features to improve the accuracy of the forecast. To predict next month order quantity, I created a stacker of five ensemble models and run a linear regression on top of it. The reported measure of error is r^2 0,93 making the a very good prediction of next month order quatity.   

